Formations, like these,
require long hours of intensive drilling
and careful judgment.
When the troop goes around the corner,
the riders on the outside of the turn
have to adjust their speed
to keep even with the riders on the inside.
The man on the outside
has to ride a lot further and a lot faster
in order to keep up with the parade.
The outside wheels must spin faster
than the wheels on the inside
because they have a greater distance to travel
in the same length of time.
When a wagon turns a corner,
the wheels can travel at different speeds
because each one can turn freely on the axles.
And in the early automobiles,
the rear wheels turned separately
and only one wheel
was connected to the engine.
But when only one wheel
was driven by the engine,
it had to do all the work,
and it couldn't get a good enough grip
on the road to do its job properly.
So the one-wheel drive
was soon out of date.
But if two wheels are locked on an axle,
so that they are not free to turn separately,
one or the other has to slide.
So engineers had to find a way
to connect both rear wheels
to the engine,
without sliding and slipping on turns.
The device which makes this possible
is a part of the rear axle.
It is called the differential,
because it can drive the rear wheels
at different speeds.
The differential looks complicated.
But once we understand its principle,
it is amazingly simple.
These two wheels are mounted
on separate axles
and supported by a frame,
so that they can revolve freely
at different speeds.
Let's fasten a spoke
on the inner end of each axle.
So that by turning the spokes,
we can turn each wheel separately.
With a bar or cross piece,
we can turn both wheels
in the same direction
at the same rate of speed.
Let's get something
to hold this bar in place,
so that it will press against the spokes.
Notice that this support
is not locked to the axle,
it turns freely.
Now, we can spin the wheels
by rotating the support.
This is fine, as long as both wheels
are able to turn at the same speed.
But let's see what happens
when we go around the corner.
With this arrangement, we cannot drive
one wheel faster than the other.
And if we stop one wheel,
the other wheel won't budge.
Let put this bar on a pivot,
so that it can swing in either direction.
Now, the bar can still turn both wheels
at the same speed.
And, because it pivots,
it lets one wheel turn
even when the other is stopped.
But, if turned too far,
the bar will swing around
until it won't drive the spokes
that turn either wheel.
We need another crossbar
and more spokes to carry on the job.
When we stop one wheel,
the crossbars will continue to push
the spokes of the free wheel around.
As long as both wheels
are free to turn,
the bars do not swing on their pivots
and the wheels move at the same speed.
Now we have the working principles
of a differential.
To adapt the model for use in an automobile,
we will have to make a few changes.
In order to reduce the jerky action,
caused by wide spaces between the spokes,
we will put in more spokes.
Further filling in the spaces between the spokes
gives steadier, more continuous action.
And changing the shape
gives firm, constant contact.
Now we can make the gears
thicker and stronger,
and we have differential gears.
The edges are cut so that they will fit together
more smoothly and silently.
And another gear is added
to share the work of driving the axles.
The principle is the same.
In order to turn the support
and drive the wheels,
we can fasten a large gear here,
connected by a smaller gear
to a source of power.
Notice that the power
is connected to the differential
at the center line.
We can make our model more compact
by moving the gears closer together.
When we put our differential
in an automobile,
we have to leave room
for the drive shaft,
which carries the power from the engine.
We may build the floor of the car
above the drive shaft.
But, if we do,
we won't have much room inside,
unless we make the top of the car high too.
Of course,
we could lower the floor and ceiling,
but the drive shaft
would be higher than the floor.
This would have disadvantages.
A shaft in the middle of the floor
of an automobile
would be inconvenient for passengers,
and would be awkward for carrying luggage.
Today, engineers have found a way
to make the car roomier and closer to the road
without a clumsy shaft above the floor.
The drive shaft from the engine to the differential
is lowered out of the way.
And the drive shaft is connected
to the rear axle at the bottom.
The new low center drive makes the rear axle
quieter, stronger, and more durable
because it gives better, smoother contact
between the gears.
The automobile of today
with the low center drive
is stronger and more rugged.
Every part of the rear axle
has been build to withstand strains,
far greater than it will ever meet
on the straight way
or around the corner.
Inside Wheel
Outside Wheel
Adam Test